**Contributor License Agreement (CLA)**

**This Contributor License Agreement ("Agreement") is made between You
(the "Contributor") and Finmars SCSA existing in Luxembourg (the
"Project Owner") and applies in addition to the European Union Public
License version 1.2 (EUPLâ€‘1.2) governing the Community Edition (see
[LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md)).**

By entering into this Agreement, including by way of signing the
Agreement or by making a Contribution, You grant the Project, the
Project Owner and downstream recipients certain rights to your
Contributions as set forth below, to enable both the open-source and
proprietary/commercial use of the Project and the Contribution.

**For the avoidance of doubt by making a Contribution, You are deemed to
have read, understood, and agreed to this Agreement, even if You do not
sign via GitHub App or otherwise provide a separate signature.**

**1. Definitions**

- **\"Contributor\"** or **\"You\"**: the individual or legal entity
  making a Contribution.

- **\"Project\"**: the software, documentation and related artifacts
  owned or managed by the Project Owner, as described in
  [README.md](./README.md) together with any related versions of the
  software, documentation and related artifacts, including proprietary
  and commercial.

- **\"Contribution\"**: any original work of authorship, including any
  modifications, enhancements, translations, or additions to existing
  works, intentionally submitted by You to the Project.

- **\"Submission\"**: the act of uploading, submitting, transmitting, or
  distributing a Contribution to the Project via pull request, patch,
  mailing list or other accepted channels.

**2. Grant of Copyright License**

You hereby grant to the Project, Project Owner and its respective
licensees a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free,
irrevocable license to:

1.  **Use, reproduce, modify, and distribute** the Contribution;

2.  **Sublicense** the Contribution under any license terms (including
    proprietary licenses);

3.  **Incorporate** the Contribution into derivative works, including
    both open-source and closed-source versions.

**3. Grant of Patent License**

Subject to the terms of this Agreement, You hereby grant to Project,
Project Owner and its licensees a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive,
royalty-free, irrevocable license under any of Your patent claims that
would be infringed by Your Contribution alone or by the combination of
Your Contribution with the Project, to make, use, sell, offer for sale,
import, and otherwise distribute the Contribution.

This section applies only if You hold one or more patents that cover
aspects of Your Contribution, or how Your Contribution interacts with
the Project.

**4. Moral Rights**

To the extent permitted by applicable law, You waive and agree not to
assert any moral rights or similar rights You may have in Your
Contribution.

**5. Representations and Warranties**

You represent and warrant that:

1.  You are the sole author of the Contribution, or have obtained all
    necessary rights to grant the licenses set forth in Sections 2 and
    3.

2.  Your Contribution is original and does not infringe any third-party
    rights.

3.  If You are submitting on behalf of an employer or other entity, You
    have the authority to make this Agreement on its behalf and warrant
    that any necessary permissions have been obtained.

4.  Your Contribution does not contain code or material subject to
    licenses or restrictions incompatible with EUPL-1.2 or this CLA.

5.  You agree to notify the Project promptly if any of these
    representations become inaccurate.

**6. Disclaimer of Liability**

The Project Owner, the Project and its maintainers provide the
Contribution "as is," without any warranty, express or implied,
including but not limited to warranties of merchantability or fitness
for a particular purpose.

**7. Signature and Execution**

You may execute this Agreement by either of the following methods:

Electronic signature via GitHub App or portal

Signed paper or PDF copy

another mutually acceptable method of execution

Once received, your pull requests will be eligible for review and merge.

**Name of Contributor Signature Date**
